

## Notes from Anthropic's ("Claude Code in Action")[https://anthropic.skilljar.com/claude-code-in-action/303241]

### CLAUDE.md

CLAUDE.md contains Claude's 'memory', which is essentially a stored context in human/AI-readable form that 
Claude uses to maintain context for usage while interacting with Claude.   

Can be stored in following locations:
 - Root directory of project repo.  Can be generated by Claude with /init, and maintained under
   source control
 - CLAUDE.local.md (in project repo)  Not shared.  Contains personal instructions and customizations for Claude
 - ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md  Used with all projects on your machine.
 - component/module directories within a source repo
 - could it be pulled in from parent directory of repo (I'm in the habit of putting all work/gitlab projects
   in a common directory, would be nice to put info there that applies to all work projects and have a different   CLAUDE.md in the github directory)

#### Note that Claude code changes pretty rapidly.  I'm dating updates below.   Oddly, asking claude code how it works doesn't always seem to work.   I suppose the training is always behind the rapid development.

## --- 03/06/2026 ---


## Skills

Skills seem to be solidifying as the mechanism for adding capabilities to coding agents, at least it has been promoted by Anthropic as an open source architecture.

https://agentskills.io/integrate-skills

https://claude.com/blog/organization-skills-and-directory



## --- Prior to Aug 2025 ---

## Commands
### '#' 
  Anything typed in with a preceding '#' will be stored in 
### '@'
  Can be used in direct interactions with Claude to 'mention' or read in a file.  Can also be
  used in CLAUDE.md to tell Claude where to find relevant code, config, documentation, etc.
  ?? Can you 'mention' via URL to pull in remote information?
### ctrl-v
  Paste anything you want from clipboard, when pasting files or screenshots, it will paste a path to the
  actual file.  Can be used to paste screen-grab from running UI, along with command to request a change to
  the UI.  Claude is able to look at the image and find the appropriate component to update within the source.
  I've seen other tutorials that paste a design doc, which instructs Claude to build the UI.
### shift-tab shift-tab
  Switches to plan mode, which will cause Claude to make a plan before doing anything.
  Alternatively, you can instruct Claude to "think" in the prompt.
### esc
  Hitting \<esc> will interrupt what Claude is currently doing, and allow you to revise or update the instructions.
### esc-esc
  Hitting \<esc> twice will allow you to go back through the session to a previous point to pick up the
  the context from that point.   This is useful for skipping back over conversations in which Claude had to 
  work through some problem in order to do what was asked.  You can now pick up from the earlier point in the
  session and move foward with the next step without retaining the extra work in the current context.
### /compact
  Compacts the current session context in order to run more efficiently going forward.
### /clear
  Clears the current session context in order to start over from a clean slate.
### /
  Just typing in '/' will display the commands that Claude knows how to execute.
  Custom commands can be added in a directory named 'commands' under the .claude dir.  Just name the files
  appropriately with a '.md' extention and they will be added to Claude's list of commands.
  Arguments can be specified in the description and within the command.
  Apparently, you don't have to give an actual bash command, just a textual description of what to do.
### MCP servers
 Added MCP server with command like: 
 ```
 claude mcp add playwright npx @playwright/mcp@latest
 ```
 [More info](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp)

### Github integration
 /install-github-app
   - install github app on github
   - api key
   enables claude code to run within github actions.
   In course, mentioned claude with @claude in a bug description asking claude to look at the problem.

### Hooks
  Run a command before or after Claudee code does something (runs a tool).
  Hooks are added to settings.json in either of:
  - ~/.claude/settings.json
  - \<projectdir>/.claude/settings.jgon
  - \<projectdir>/.claude/settings.local.json  # Not recommended.
  Can be created with '/hooks' command.
  Can ask Claude to list all the tools it has access to.
  pre-tool hooks can exit with code 2 to prevent running tool.  stderr output goes to Claude for feedback.
  - Hooks can be run at:
    - PreToolUse
    - PostToolUse
    - Notification
    - Stop
    - SubagentStop
    - PreCompact
    The json data passed to the hook will differ depending on which event triggered the hook.

### Claude Code SDK
  SDKs exist for each of Typescript, Python and CLI.  These let you run Claude Code programatically.
  Read-only, by default.  Could add permissions to SDK call, or update settings.json.
  Could be used in helper commands, scripts of hooks.



  Gotcha: Hooks should not be specified with relative paths, but absolute paths are not portable.  Example is given of running a setup process via npm to copy an example settings.local.json and modify paths to be absolute.











